# Natural Lanuguage Processing
## Fake news identification
by Daniel Russotto and Christine Utendorf

In this assignment our goal is to determine if a provided article including a title and text provides real or fake news. Fake news consists of disinformation and it imposes a great threat to our today's society. Not knowing what to believe when it comes to news and information or even worse not recognizing that the information provided is not reflecting the truth can truely harm a reader. Especially through the rise of the internet and with it the rise of social media, news can be accessed at any time, any place and from many different sources. However, this also gives fake news the possibility to spread faster, wider and more successfully.

Social media giant Facebook has set up a unit to identify such fake news on its platform. After being critized more than ones for doing to little against the spread of false infromation, Facebook is now "working to stop misinformation and false news". The company is not only working together with third-party fact-check organizations but is also applying machine learning techniques to identify such post that contain fake news (see more under the link). It is highly likely that Facebook uses Natural Language Processing and classification algorithms in order to determine if they have fraud in front of them or not.

In this assignment we (Dan and Christine) are going to work on such a problem that Facebook (as well as Twitter, Youtube, and many other platforms) is facing everyday: Identifying is an article provides real or fake news. We are not going to use fact-checking in order to prove if an information is acurate, but train a machine learning algorithm to classify articles as fake or real. In order to do so we are using several concepts of natural language processing such as tokenization and lemmatization from the NLTK python library as well as machine learning concepts including logistic regression and naive bayes from the sklearn python library. For this puprpose we were provided with a training data set that includes articels that are already labled as real or fake and a test set without such labels. The goal is to train a model that is able to find a general pattern to identify fake news among articles it has never seen before (here our "blind" test data set).
